# SMART-BLIND-ASSISTANCE-SYSTEM

This project is an attempt to show how we as engineers can help blind folks carry out their daily chores independently. In normal stick,
the detection of the obstacle is not done and it is not efficient for visually impaired people.
To overcome the drawbacks of normal stick and achieve the aim of our project we have attempted to make their walking stick smart with the use of Arduino.
In this project, we use the ultrasonic sensor, PIR sensor, LDR, GSM Module, and GPS module, integrating it to blind man’s walking stick which runs on the program loaded on Arduino. The smart stick helps blind people to detect obstacles and to do their work easily and comfortably.
The device measures the distance between objects and Smart Walking Stick by Ultrasonic sensor. When the objects or obstacles come
in a range of the ultrasonic sensor, he/she can know about the obstacle by hearing the sound generated by the buzzer. 
In case of an emergency the exact location of the person is tracked by GPS and sent to the caretaker through the GSM module. There is a continuous ongoing interaction between the microcontroller and these modules. So when the switch is pressed, the GPS module tracks the latitude and longitude of the location where the blind person is standing and sends it to the microcontroller which in turn sends it to the predefined mobile number of the caretaker with the help of the GSM module.
The proposed system is cost-effective, fast, easy to use and an
innovative affordable solution to blind people in the world.



